+++
title = "Deep Feature Disentanglement Learning for Bone Suppression in Chest Radiographs"
date = 2020-09-30T00:00:01
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = `["C. Lin", "*R. Tang*", "D Lin", "L. Liu", "J. Lu", "Y. Chen", "D Gao", "J Zhou"]`
# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging* 2020"
publication_short = "ISBI 2020"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Suppression of bony structures in chest radiographs is essential for many computer-aided diagnosis tasks. In this paper,
we propose a Disentanglement AutoEncoder (DAE) for bone
suppression. As the projection of 3D structures of bones
and soft tissues overlap in 2D radiographs, their features are
interwoven and need to be disentangled for effective bone
suppression. Our DAE progressively separates the features of
soft-tissues from that of the bony structure during the encoder
phase and reconstructs the soft-tissue image based on the
disentangled features of soft-tissue. Bone segmentation can
be performed concurrently using the separated bony features
through a separate multi-task branch. By training the model
with multi-task supervision, we explicitly encourage the autoencoder to pay more attention to the locations of bones in
order to avoid loss of soft-tissue information. The proposed
method is shown to be effective in suppressing bone structures from chest radiographs with very little visual artifacts."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://ieeexplore-ieee-org.srv-proxy1.library.tamu.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9098399"
url_preprint = "https://ieeexplore-ieee-org.srv-proxy1.library.tamu.edu/document/9098399"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
